How to assign a grammar to music?
    Use transformational Chomskian grammars
        Strings of words can be generated using set theoretic concepts
            e.g. the group over time (e.g. discreet group operations)
            can be a representation of sequential words generated
            by a small grammar.
    Dictionaries of inspiration are sheet music
        Direct, symbolic representations
        Would have to do the equvalent of speech recognition othw.
        Still, sheet-to-note is a huge undertaking
    Neural networks and/or random forests for learning the grammar

A Bayes net for scale selection in a voice e.g. switch to aeolian
    from ionian with probability p, etc.
Bayes net for melodic construction including access to past rendering
    and potential future paths. Dynamic programming-style with adaptive,
    programmable cost functions.

Two main styles:
    Classical: wherein the piece is rendered as a whole, with
        internal universal knowledge of the overall structure,
        the artists all know everything, including future projected
        paths. Multiple artists can join into blackboxes for chords
        or backup or something and then they can break back into
        individual voices. Events need concrete semantics - the model
        for musical development in my head is to put tight constraints
        in order to understand, then loosen to get the zen of it.
    Jazz: wherein the piece is rendered note by note, each artist with
        a peculiar personality and knowledge only of the piece's structure,
        past notes played, future personal projected trajectories.
        Queues may be musical or "visual" i.e., artists pass direct
        indicative objects not rendered into notes but included in behavior.

Creation of phrases for playing, saving, repitition
    Really, creation of any hierarchical object in the musical grammar.
    This is unfortunately reductionist and may very well lead to
        chunks and pieces that are individually coherent but globally
        uninteresting. A transition to continuous rather than discrete
        hierarchical gramar would aleviate this pieces-not-whole condition.

Turk out musical preferences e.g. enter your genre classification
    of this little tune, enter your favorite generes, artists,
    etc. to train the engine to understand its creations.

Example of a hierarchical grammar for musical sentences is:
    Piece
        Movement
            Phrases
                Words
                    Phonemes
                        Notes
    e.g., Piece is 1-5-1 with length and similarity parameters,
                mood parameters (govng: scale transition probs),
                necessary semantic events, etc.
          Movement is e.g. expository (generates phrases),
                recapitulatory (revisits phrases), etc.
                Can modify global parameters if need be, tacks on
                to the "system state" other params.
          Phrases similarly.
